---
layout: post
title:      "**Why did you decide to learn software development?**"
date:       2017-02-25 11:08:33 -0500
permalink:  why_did_you_decide_to_learn_software_development
---


While my move into software development is fairly new--I made the big jump a day before my birthday this year--my entire journey reads a lot like many hero mythologies. There's a lot of highs and lows as it relates to how far I strayed or how closely I came back to coding. There are rebirths when I rediscovered programming several times after veering off into other careers. There's even a distressing, angst-ridden montage when I forsook (<--is this really a word) all this year, and ultimately jumped into the big ocean of Full Stack Web Development.

No. Not really. But arriving at this decision wasn't as easy as some other life decisions I've had to make. The largest barrier was not necessarily finding the time to commit to a program, but how fast I could complete the program. I knew I didn't want to return to a college again. I thought that if I started up a brick-and-mortar degree I would feel locked in to not being able to move away for years to come. That's not a scary thought to many. It's stability, right? But I have been on the move since I was 18. I just turned 32 this year, and looking back there isn't a period of 2-3 years where I didn't just pick up and go somewhere else to start up my life again. The one period where this wasn't true was when I met my fiancée. After we started dating I decided to remain in Pittsburgh, but that was a great time because I was in a great relationship. Plus, I was still able to travel to do some hiking on Pikes Peak and I took several long bicycle tours to keep my adventures flowing.

In 2016 we moved to Stockholm, Sweden, so she could complete her Masters degree abroad. Sweden opened my eyes to the type of living I wanted to be a part of, and the types of career I wanted to be a part of. Sweden is a proud entrepreneur/start-up friendly country. The more I read about the types of startups coming out of Sweden, the more I wanted to be a part of that scene. Unlike my past career in healthcare, programming and web development can be quite friendly to frequent travelers. It crosses more borders quicker than healthcare, and is constantly growing and expanding. I couldn't see myself as a floor nurse for very long. I had some dreams about maybe living abroad, so I just couldn't see myself ever really moving up into administration or enjoying the license transferral process of working in healthcare internationally. Maybe I could do teaching, I thought, but there would be zero chance for travel after making that commitment.

All in all, I think I scared myself a little so I would make the jump into web development. I knew some about programming as a self-taught BASIC programming kid. I remember how much I loved to make little text-based games and loops, and the thought of locking myself into healthcare at my age now gave me the final boot in the back to try something totally different. 

I'm glad I came across Flatiron School when I did. I have been here only a few weeks (as of this initial blog posting date) and enjoy the community and the curriculum. My overall goal is to build and keep a good pace through the curriculum. I decided to work a 3rd shift to make things a little easier for me, but I haven't quite nailed down everything that I need around me, including setting some realistic goals for this year. If all goes well, I hope to raise a glass in Sweden toasting my new job. Skål!
