---
layout: post
title:      "Back on the Regrind"
date:       2018-07-05 09:00:00 +0000
permalink:  back_on_the_regrind
---

I'm so sorry Programming! What have you ever done to deserve this type of neglect from me?! You've done nothing but good things for my brain and my life, yet I pick you up and drop you again and again like an old diet fad. I promise from this day on (well, we'll say from July 1), that I will never do this to you again and I will see this school thing through to get me to the next chapter in my life.

Things are okay with me. I would definitely not call everything great. I battle every day with a sadness in my head and heart. I don't sleep well at my new apartment because of ongoing construction that is literally a few feet from my bed on the other side of the wall. My landlord has checked in a few times and apologized. I don't even care at this point. Let them work for years. IDGAF. I can only directly control my emotions and reactions to things in my life; not what others do or think or believe. I'm done arguing with trolls and people who allow themselves to be trolled. It wastes my time to explain to them that their time is being wasted. Instead I'm going to focus on my development as a programmer and my fitness and to ultimately get myself to a place of happiness again. This means creating some new habits again, including daily programming and going to the gym without looking for lame excuses.

I took my vacation last week to Ocean City. It was fantastic. On the last day I had one of my greatest days there. My mom and I went to the beach early since we had to leave the condo by noon. The beach was nearly empty. We were able to get right up to the waves with our chairs. The water was cool, but refreshing. It didn't stop me from going out and swimming for 20 minutes at a time. I think my mom enjoyed it a lot too. Since I moved we don't see each other as much as before and I know she misses having coffee or tea with me and talking about life.

Since my last post I also bought a car. It happened pretty quickly. I started car shopping online a week or so before I bought my car. I just wanted a change in my life, and a new car was going to provide that. So far this year I've had some "mile marker" event each month, now with the exception of June. That month went so quickly that I didn't even have enough time to think up something "splash-worthy". The event has to be larger than boring life events. For instance, joining the gym is not "mile marker" -worthy. So, while I did have some cool things like vacation in June, there was nothing so big that I would look back on my year and use that as a way to remember my June 2018. I don't have anything planned for July yet, but maybe it can be programming or school related.

My IRL job is pretty rough on me. Besides the bickering that happens over each shift, there's other pressures, including overtime nearly every day, that have really squeezed my brain and body and have made it really tough to sit down at a computer after work and try to program. I've been fighting the psychological squeeze by running nearly every day. That, and work, wipes me out, so my school productivity has plummeted over the past couple of months. I don't find time to make lectures or work on projects. My work overtime is voluntary, but it feels like I'm being looked down on if I don't show up for the overtime. I also give a ride to a co-worker, and I just can't bring myself to say that I'm not going in early. The only way out of this bad situation is to just continue grinding at work and finding time for school. I can always use the extra money, plus, the harder I work and the more I work raises the possibility of the next shift not requiring any overtime. Hopefully we will reach some sort of slow down soon and I can get back into a regular schedule of normal sleep and attending lectures and interacting with Flatiron again.

I'll be working on some goals again for school this month. Currently, I'd like to spend an hour in the Atom editor each day, either programming or blogging. I use a package called WakaTime that keeps track of the time in the editor that creates a nice visual metric for checking in on meeting my goal. That means 7 hours each week spent in the editor alone. Outside of that, I'm going through the SQL section again. I actually really enjoy the database creation and maintenance side of things. I don't think that means I'll be a back-end programmer necessarily, though, because I do enjoy the front-end side of things as well. If anything, it solidifies the fact that I really like full-stack. I'm looking forward to working more in-depth with databases on larger projects.

Enough for now.
